# README: Homework 08 (CTD Version)

This is the folder for STAT 547M Homework 8 (CTD Version). This is just a DEMO Version of the CTD app which will analyze CTD data automatically.

Since CTD data is quite difficult to process (the first step is how to read the file by human). My goal is to establish an official CTD data analysis website on the eoas.ubc.ca server, which can:

(1) allow user upload .cnv file to the web server (upgrade in the future version. Use processed .xlsx file instead in this version)

(2) generate all figures interactively and allow users to download them in high resolution (partially realized in current version)

(3) allow users to download processed data (in current version)

(4) allow uses to select the depth range (in current version)

(5) allow users to sort the results by depth (in current version)

(6) do all other computations (upgrade in the future version, need to know users' need first)

[Link to website](https://yuanjisun.shinyapps.io/CTD_app/)

[Link to ui.R](https://github.com/yuanjisun/STAT547-hw-Sun-Yuanji/blob/master/hw08/CTD_version/ui.R)

[Link to server.R](https://github.com/yuanjisun/STAT547-hw-Sun-Yuanji/blob/master/hw08/CTD_version/server.R)

__Features added to the app__

(See the description above)

__Report process__

1. I used `tabsetPanel()` to place the plot and the table in separate tabs generated by `shinydashboard`. However, the figure is covered by the sidebar. Thus, I removed this function.

2. Be careful when using if-else statement within another if-else statement. It is quite confusing to see the structure. Thus, it is important to have a good habit when coding.

3. Maybe there is a RStudio version issue because the download function does not work in RStudio. The problem is the default file name cannot be assigned to the file although the file itself is fine. However, it works on the website.

4. It is very important to put `()` after reactive dataframe. I ran into several errors because of missing `()`.

5. It is important to keep in mind that ui.R and serrver.R do not share packages. If you used a package in UI, then load it in UI. It is the same for Server. If you are not sure (or too many packages are loaded), just load them in both R scripts.

6. The most useful resource is Google. The shiny documentation is also helpful when choosing the visualization options. Dean Attali's Shiny Server gives some idea how to optimize the app.
